an Israeli official says prime minister
Benjamin Netanyahu has dissolved
Israel's war cabinet that's after former
General Benny gun and his National Unity
party quit the government earlier this
month meanwhile police have clashed with
thousands of anti-government protesters
close to the prime minister's residence
in Jerusalem officers used water cannon
and arrested a number of people the
demonstrators are demanding new
elections to replace Netanyahu they are
also demanding a deal with Hamas
militants to secure the release of
hostages held in
Gaza so why has Netanyahu dissolved his
War cabinet now here's DW's Tanya
CLA well it didn't come exactly as a
surprise I mean this move was expected
by prime minister Benin Netanyahu after
uh his Minister Benny guns and also his
number two of his party guard Eisen cot
left the government over a week ago so
for some here it was rather a formality
uh that this happened now this uh
consultative body the smaller War
cabinet uh was formed actually shortly
after the attacks on October 7 know to
show uh a Unity to bring uh parts of the
opposition also in this government and
this war cabinet was kind of a condition
that uh Mr guns was actually joining uh
this government at the time now some
here say of course now it was also a
political move Now by prime minister
Benjamin netan he didn't want his power
right cabinet ministers uh betes modish
who finance minister and also the
minister for National Security uh itamar
Ben to join this war cabinet but some
say it was more AFF formative because
now um basically what Mr Netanyahu will
do is that he will uh as some government
sources have said he will form smaller
consultative uh groups ahead of bigger
decisions or critical decisions and then
bring them into the wider security
cabinet but it is expected that uh there
will be more and more pressure
increasing pressure domestically and
also internationally on uh prime
minister Benyamin Netanyahu also now
that this war cabinet is gone because uh
Netanyahu could uh always point to this
more Unity to the Centrist party that
was part of it and that is of course no
longer the case